CCGA.md, before:

# The Circulating Cell-free Genome Atlas

## Introduction

The Circulating Cell-free Genome Atlas [(CCGA; NCT02889978)](https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02889978) study is a prospective, observational, longitudinal, multi-center study designed to collect blood samples from individuals with cancer for the development of in vitro diagnostic tests for early cancer detection. 

The study is sponsored by GRAIL, Inc. and is being conducted in collaboration with the Knight Cancer Institute at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI). 

The study started in 2016 and is expected to enroll approximately 15,000 participants with cancer and 5,000 participants without known cancer.

The study is divided into three sub-studies: [INFOGRAPHIC](https://grail.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Fact-Sheet-The-Circulating-Cell-free-Genome-Atlas-CCGA-Study.pdf)

 - **Sub-study 1, DISCOVERY** (Completed) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2022.10.022)): They evaluated three next-generation sequencing blood tests and their ability to detect hallmarks of cancer.
    1. **Mutations**
    2. **Chromosome changes**
    3. **DNA methylation changes**. This outperformed the other two approaches.
  - **Sub-study 2, TRAINING/INITIAL VALIDATION** (Completed) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.02.011)): They selected methylation as their prefered approach. In particular, they focused on **TARGETED METHYLATION**. Even though they use WGBS data, they focus on a set of informative regions/CpG sites.
  - **Sub-study 3, VALIDATION** (Ongoing/Completed?) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2021.05.806)): ...

Commit message:

Update CCGA.md with extra info about data sequencing

CCGA.md, after:

# The Circulating Cell-free Genome Atlas

## Introduction

The Circulating Cell-free Genome Atlas [(CCGA; NCT02889978)](https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT02889978) study is a prospective, observational, longitudinal, multi-center study designed to collect blood samples from individuals with cancer for the development of in vitro diagnostic tests for early cancer detection. 

The study is sponsored by GRAIL, Inc. and is being conducted in collaboration with the Knight Cancer Institute at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI). 

The study started in 2016 and is expected to enroll approximately 15,000 participants with cancer and 5,000 participants without known cancer.

The study is divided into three sub-studies: [INFOGRAPHIC](https://grail.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Fact-Sheet-The-Circulating-Cell-free-Genome-Atlas-CCGA-Study.pdf)

 - **Sub-study 1, DISCOVERY** (Completed) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccell.2022.10.022)): They evaluated three next-generation sequencing blood tests and their ability to detect hallmarks of cancer.
    1. **Mutations**
    2. **Chromosome changes**
    3. **DNA methylation changes**. This outperformed the other two approaches.
  - **Sub-study 2, TRAINING/INITIAL VALIDATION** (Completed) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.02.011)): They selected methylation as their prefered approach. In particular, they focused on **TARGETED METHYLATION**. Even though they use WGBS data, they focus on a set of informative regions/CpG sites. (I'm not 100% sure to get this, but as I understand, they analize the samples using WGBS data to get the "important regions", and then they sequence the samples again, not using WGBS but a targeted aproach, so they get a higher coverage of those regions at a cheaper cost [see paper, subsection "_Targeted methylation panel design, sample processing,
and sequencing_"]).
  - **Sub-study 3, VALIDATION** (Ongoing/Completed?) ([DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2021.05.806)): ...
